Hi guys.
In this lab we're going to create a high availability WordPress solution with Elastic Beanstalk
.
Now everything that you can see inside this orange rectangle is the Elastic Beanstalk environment.
So that means it's going to be provisioned by Elastic Beanstalk.
The RDS database we're going to create manually through the console and there are some advantages
to doing that.
You can then use the RDS database with multiple environments and manage it independently of Elastic
Beanstalk so when we create our Elastic Beanstalk environment it's going to provision an application
load balancer and auto scaling group and EC2 instance.
And once we've uploaded our code which we're going to create on on a developer client or in this case
we're actually going to use an EC2 instance it will then provision WordPress install the WordPress
into the RDS database and create an elastic file system a mountain that file system and that's where
it's going to store its code.
So that's what the solution looks like.
And we're going to create exactly the solution with the only difference as I mentioned before is we're
going to use an EC2 instance on Amazon rather than an external clients.
And the reason being just that I don't want students coming from a Windows machine and some from a Linux
machine and some from the Mac machine and maybe the commands don't work or you know some utility is
not installed.
So let's just use an Amazon Linux 2 AMI and then the commands are going to be the same for everyone.
Up to you, you can choose whatever you want.
So that's the environment we're going to build out. Now I am actually going to be working through an
AWS article and the plus for you is that that means that you can refer to that article if anything goes
wrong.
Of course there's still support through the forum as well and you can contact me if you need some specific
help.
But using an AWS article and tutorial from AWS really helps because that means that you can reference
back and work out what went wrong if something went wrong.
And this one can be a little bit tricky if you make any mistakes anywhere it's not going to be very
forgiving for you.
So let's get over to the console and start building this out.
This is the AWS article that referred to before and obviously the link will be available to
you in the course downloads.
So we're going to follow this quite closely.
There'll be a few differences but we're largely going to follow through this article.
And the first thing we're going to do is launch a DB instance in RDS. We're in the RDS management
console and I'm just going to choose create database.
I'm going to choose mysql and I'm going to choose free tier.
And the reason being what I would do is it will actually stop us from doing a multi AZ deployment and
a few other things but it keeps it within the free tier for you so reduces cost.
Now we can change this to multi AZ later on. For the other settings we need to call the database
DB and you do need to call it that.
And I'm just going to put in my master user name is digitalcloud and I'm going to save that as my password
as well.
I'm going to leave this one in my default VPC and I'm going to let it create a new VPC security group
and all other settings are going to stay the same except the database name which should be DB And the
port is going to be 3306 because this is mysql so that's all the options I'm going
to remove deletion protection and create database while the database is being created let's head over
to EC2 now the thing I want is to show you is I've already created an instance and this is where
we're going to be running our commands from.
So I've given it S3 full access because I do need to move some data into S3 and I've given
it access to my Web access security group so that I've got ports wanting to open for SSH. If we
now go down to security groups we'll see this security group called RDS launch wizard.
Now this was created by the launch wizard and it allows port 3306 from my IP address this is
my public IP address at home.
Now what I want to do is I want to change this.
And the reason being I'm not going to connect into this database is actually going to be my elastic
beanstalk environment that connects to this database.
So what we could do is we could give it the IP of our elastic or the security group of our elastic beanstalk
instance but we don't actually have that yet.
The other way of doing this and this is what is actually shown in the article by AWS is to use the security
group itself.
So we're going to select RDS launch with a security group and now anything that's a member of this
security group will be able to send data on Port 3306 to other instances in the security group.
In this case our RDS instance.
So what we will need to do is add this to Elastic Beanstalk and environment and we'll be doing that
shortly once we've created it.
So I'm just gonna click save that and let's head back to RDS and see how we're getting on.
So it looks like we now have our endpoints and port and you can see the RDS launch was a security
group in here that we've just edited.
So the next task is to go over to our EC2 instance that we're going to use for running commands.
I've always already SSH'd into my EC2 instance and I've also logged in as root user what I'm gonna
do is make a directory called WordPress dash beanstalk. I now need to run a command to download Wordpress
and all these commands are going to be in the article we're now going to download some code from get
and we should now have these directories so let's just clear the screen to make it easy for you to see
what's going on and we now have this source code which came from get hub we've got our WordPress tar
file and what I need to do is extract wordpress so I'm going to run ... WordPress
... and so now what we should have is our WordPress directory and we'll now going to move
the WordPress contents
into all WordPress beanstalk photo.
Now bear in mind what I've done here WordPress slash style if you want to get this right you have the
data.
If you follow the article directly it doesn't do that and you just end up moving your directory into
the WordPress beanstalk folder and it doesn't work.
So make sure you put the command line is in just as I have here
we can now change directories to that photo and we're going to run this command to unzip these files
from the get files that we downloaded into this directory along with the WordPress folder or the contents
that we extracted from the WordPress directory.
So I'm going to run this and then we can run this command to see if the directory structure looks the
way it should do.
And that looks good to me that looks like it does in the article.
If you don't have tree just run yum install tree dash why we're not gonna go to the elastic beanstalk
console and create so elastic beanstalk environment now if I just go over to this article what you'll
find is if you scroll down to launch an Elastic Beanstalk environment there's a link here and you can
open that and it just takes you straight to the wizard and actually fills out the application name and
environment named for you.
So that's good to make sure that you get it right.
We then needs to choose the platform and in this case PHP is the option because this is Wordpress and
we can leave sample application because we're actually going to upload our code later on and we can
choose review and launch and we now need to choose crates app and now it's gonna go off and actually
create our environment.
And that would take several minutes to complete.
So that took several minutes to complete and we now have a healthy environment.
And if we want to we can have a look at this link here and open this up and sure enough we've got our
congratulations
message saying that we've got our PHP app running and what we want to do now is you remember that
we updated RDS security group so that it would only accept connections on Port 3306 from
members of that security group.
So what we need to do now in order to enable our instance to attach to RDS instance is we need
to add the RDS launch wizard to the list of security groups that it's a member of and we can choose
apply.
Now what you'll notice is it tells us that each of your existing EC2 instances will be replaced
and your new settings will take effect then.
So we can confirm this and if we now go across to EC2 just choose instances and we can see that
we've got this tutorials environment one that's running and so we'll keep an eye on this and it should
get terminated and then a new instance will be replaced we'll replace it.
And that instance will have the new settings and of course in your Elastic Beanstalk environment when
this Elastic Beanstalk environment is complete you'll have your code stored somewhere and it doesn't
matter if your instance is replaced because the code is stored outside of the instance and Elastic Beanstalk
then gets your environment back up and running again.
So that's all good.
Now let's click refresh.
It's still not happened yet.
We could go back to our environment here see what's happening now and we can see the information events
happening and suddenly very quickly change to environment update completed.
So let's go back and see what's going on in EC2 and we can see we have another one being initialized.
So we now have the replacement instance being initialized and I think very soon the other one will get
shut down and there we go it's time to shut down already.
So while this is happening you'll find that your environment changes to warning in a minute because
obviously there's no instance running in the new instance will take a while to register with the load
balancer.
Sure enough they go a hit refresh and it says it's helped Environment Health is transition from green
to yellow and it tells us the elastic low bouncer has no healthy instances.
So we had over here we can see load balancer.
Well let's go to our target group and choose targets and it's now healthy.
So that didn't take very long.
Let's just make sure that it's the right one.
Yeah.
So that's good.
It's it's healthy now so it shouldn't take long for this to go back to green.
There we go.
Environment is transition from yellow to green.
So that's great.
So that's completes it.
That was pretty fast.
Go to instances now we should see that we have this healthy instance running the next thing we need
to do is configure our environment to connect to our RDS instance.
Now you will need to go to RDS and you'll need to make sure that you get a copy of this endpoint address
and you need to know your port.
You also need to know your username and password for your database.
So what we do is we go to tutorials environment in plastic beanstalk we choose configuration software
and we collect that modify button then we come down to environment environment properties and what we're
going to do here is we're going to enter these environment properties.
First one is RDS underscore DB underscore a name and this should be a DB then we've got RDS underscore
hostname and this should be the endpoint of database instance.
We then have RDS underscore port and this should be 3306 if you chose mysql then
RDS username which in this case should be digitalcloud and I'm going to just copy that
to my clipboard and then we have RDS password and that should also be digital cloud
so we can click apply and it's going to update the settings and while that's happening what we're going
to do is head back over to our command line where we actually need to make some modifications to a couple
of files so we're back on the command line.
I'm just going to clear the screen and what we need to do is nano dot Eby extensions slash dev and it's
dot config and what we need to do in here is we need to scroll down to here where it says my IP and
that's the loop back address.
We don't want to use to loop back address.
We want to specify the address we're going to connect from.
In my case I'm just going to open this up so we can connect from anywhere you can make this more secure
by specifying your IP address and we can save this file and then going to edit the file dot Eby extensions
slash ESFs dash create config and what we need to do in here is we need to specify the VPC I.D. and
the three subnets.
So what other days just backspace this head back to the console.
Let's go to virtual private cloud I'm going to look at my VPC and I'm gonna take the idea of my default
VPC and I'm going to pace that in and then I'm gonna come down here and I'm going to backspace this
one out.
Go back to go to subnets and these three subnets are all part of that VPC.
So you need to take the ID of each subnet
paste that in and then do the same.
Again
and that's all three subnets and we don't need to change anything else so let's just save this file and
we now need to run this command to create a zip file with all our code in it and that's created that
file in the directory above.
So we just change to the directory above.
And we've now got this WordPress dash beanstalk dot zip.
Now I'm just gonna copy this to a bucket on S3 so that I can then just download that to my machine
and upload the zip file from there to beanstalk.
So I'm going to copy WordPress dot dash beanstalk dot zip to S3 colon slash slash DCT company and hit
enter and that's all file uploaded go over to S3
and we have the DCT company folder here and the wordpress that's dash stored far that I just downloaded
so I'm just gonna download that to my machine.
We can now head over to our elastic beanstalk environment and let's just hit refresh here and it's gone
back to green.
So that's all good.
Let's upload and deploy our code and I'm going to choose this WordPress dash beanstalk dot zip file
and choose deploy.
So what's happened is we've now uploaded our code from our client which happens to be an EC2 instance
but could be anywhere into elastic beanstalk and it's then going to deploy that code onto our environment
and that includes putting WordPress on this instance and connect it into a database deploying an air
force file system and mounting it to our instance.
So let's go back to the console and have a look and see in EFS what's going on.
So I'm just going to choose EFS and sure enough we've got a file system here and we can say it's
got three different availability zones and it's in the state of creating and if we go over to our EC2
management console we should see that we've now got our tutorials environment running. Well that's
been running for a while so that's nothing new there.
But let's go to cloudformation and see what's going on.
So in cloudformation we have an update in progress.
We can go to events and we can see what's going on and so far so good.
So that took several minutes but the update is complete now so we can see everything's completed successfully.
Let's go to our environment.
And I just refreshed out a second ago and it all looks green so everything is healthy.
Let's try going to this link so this takes us to the WordPress set up and we should now be able to put
in some information systems.
Call it my WP Eb site for elastic beanstalk and we're just going to use the we're just gonna use using
a nail and then I'm going to leave the password as it is.
Copy it to my clipboard.
... testing dot com and install Wordpress
and sure enough that's worked so we should now be able to log in our password, and there we are in WordPress.
So that's really great.
It looks like it's all worked well.
I hope it's worked well for you.
Let's just go back over to the diagram to have a look at the logical view of what we've just created.
So what we've done is we've created an elastic beanstalk environment.
It's provisioned a load balancer an auto scaling group and an EC2 instance.
We've then manually created an RDS database and then we've created some source code and that source
code has been uploaded loaded to beanstalk and beanstalk is then deployed that source code which had
WordPress in it and it also had the directions to create an EFS file system to store the source
code on and that's all worked.
So that's fantastic.
I hope it works well for you guys.
Now remember you do need to follow this step by step.
So just go through my guidance in this video.
If you've had any problems look into cloudformation that's usually where you'll find some some good
information about what's failed or if not go into the event log within elastic beanstalk and you can
often find some task events there that may have failed for some reason.
If you have any other problems of course go to the forum or message me directly and hopefully we'll
get you working now if you'd like to there's a few additional tasks you can do that are in the article.
So for instance you can modify your auto scaling group through elastic beanstalk so that you have multiple
instances running so feel free to go and play around with that you could also enable multi AZ for your
database and play around with failing over and stuff like that.
But otherwise the only thing that's left to do is to clean up our environment.
So let's head over to the console and what we can do is in our elastic beanstalk where we can choose
actions and terminate environment and we'll need to copy the name of the environment paste that in and
click terminate and if we're going to cloudformation now and refresh we should see a delete in progress.
Now don't forget that we provisioned something separately.
So we'll have to also go back into RDS and delete our database.
And if you have enabled deletion protection you're first going to modify, choose to remove deletion
protection, save it, and update immediately. And then you can go in and delete. In this case we just choose
that we acknowledge and type "delete me"
and that should delete all the resources as always.
Best advice is to go into EC2 just make sure that everything's been deleted.
In cloudformation as well and make sure you don't have any extra resources.
So hope you've had a lot of fun guys.
See you in the next lab.